# DE-genes-in-T2D-islet-cells
Pancreatic islet cells are important to maintain the normal blood glucose (sugar) levels, and those cells which produce glucagon (α cells) and insulin (β cells) play crucial roles in regulating the blood sugar levels. We found a list of data about RNA sequencing of single human islet cells, which includes the single-cell RNA sequences of α cells and β cells from people without and with type 2 diabetes(T2D). We aim to find differentially expressed genes (DE genes) in T2D patients’ islet cells. By using the Cufflinks package in Linux, we found 101 genes differ significantly in α cells and 135 genes in β cells between people with or without T2D. The error bar for each highly expressed gene is larger than our expectation which are caused by the large variance among single cell sequencing data. Additionally, we used packages edgeR and limma in R to analyze differentially expressed genes in T2D patients, too. The genes we found in α cells are TSG101, CPNE8, VMP1, DFFA, USP2, SLC35A4, POGLUT1 and in β cells are NNT-AS1, MZT1.
This repository shows the process of non_T2D group data processing. We obtained the T2D group data using the same method shown in data_processing and reads_mapping.
In this experiment, we used single cell RNA seq data which have very broad variance and low reads count. These two problem causes the real large error bar. Single cell RNA sequencing analysis needs a huge number of biological replicates to overcome these problems. 12 single cell samples are not convincing to draw a conclusion. The large error bar may be caused by filtering in cuffdiff program. In cuffdiff, we did not see a procedure including non-specific filter like we did in limma analysis. Cuffdiff is basically automatic and there is not a parameter related to remove low read counts. Different genes are expressed at different period of a cell cycle. We randomly picked the cells thus if we do not remove low expressed genes, the DE genes we found are basically random, too. Also, it seems the cuffdiff package did not remove pseudogenes in the process. For these two reasons, we have obtained more genes than we expected using cuffdiff packages. Correspondingly, limma analysis have fixed the problems of filtering and removing pseudogenes thus its results seem more convincing than cuffdiff results. The DE genes found by limma is convincing whereas less than our expectation. This is because we did not obtain enough samples as our input to find DE genes expressed at other time or in different conditions in islet cells.
